Brilliant.
Thank you.
Everyone who has read, I have to say I'm impressed with all the Christmas outfits.
And thank you so much for leading us so beautifully today.
My name's Nicola.
Hello.
And I get just for a little bit, just to pull together some of what we've sung about.
One of the most powerful lines in the Carol Hark, the herald angels sing, which we're going to sing to finish today shortly.
There's a line, and it's speaking of Jesus, and it says, light and life to all he brings.
And in a world that can so often feel dark, heavy, and confusing, Christmas reminds us that Jesus, God's own son, came to bring life
and light and hope.
So I just want to pull out three short things.
One is this idea of light in the darkness.
The world that Jesus entered over 2000 years ago wasn't peaceful.
It wasn't easy.
It was troubled.
It was divided and it was weary.
You just have to watch the news to see some very similar issues today.
And for some, Christmas is a beautiful season.
But for others, especially those who are walking through loneliness, through bereavement, through significant change, this time of year can be particularly hard.
And I know some, even in this room, I'm missing someone they love dearly.
Some maybe in this room might be surrounded by people and yet feel very much alone.
some may be carrying burdens of various kinds, some really worried about world events.
But into the sense of darkness that can accompany all of these things, the Bible declares, the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
See, Jesus is not intimidated by darkness.
He stepped
right into it.
And just as he did 2000 and so years ago, he steps towards you today and he offers his presence, his light in your darkness and he offers his hope.
And you might ask, okay, how?
What does that mean?
How is that even possible?
Well, the second thing I want to talk briefly about is this baby Jesus who came to save.
See, at the heart of the Christmas story is this tiny newborn baby boy laying in a manger, fully God and fully human.
And you know, he didn't come to add a holiday onto our calendars, but to begin a rescue mission.
The angel of the Lord said to Joseph in a dream, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
She'll give birth to a son and you ought to give him the name.
Joseph, listen up.
You ought to give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins.
This rescue mission,
didn't look like anyone had really expected, in spite of all of the prophecies that we heard just one of this morning.
But Jesus came as a baby into this world.
And the world we all experience, the world we know, the troubles we experience, he came into that, into our world, the world that we know.
And all of us know what that kind of
Darkness can feel like.
It might feel like fear.
It might feel like guilt.
It might feel like confusion or simply being far from God.
And the Bible says we experience that kind of darkness because we were created for a relationship with God.
But we've all turned from Him in our own ways.
And that separation is what the Bible calls sin.
And it's that sin that separates us from God.
And that's the darkness, really, that the Scriptures speak of, that sin that separates us from God over and over, wider and wider.
And we are unable to save ourselves from that darkness and put it right.
We are unable to bring light to our lives.
And that's why we need a Savior.
That's why we need a rescuer.
And the amazing news is
The birth of Jesus was the start of this divine rescue mission.
He came to save us.
He came to us.
He came to our lives, not far off and distant, looking on from the outside as some may be perceived God to be, but in human form, he came to us.
Understanding our struggles, knowing our sin,
And because he is God, this is the amazing thing that he is able to rescue us.
He's able to carry our burdens, including grief, including pain, and including loneliness, including our fears, including all of our anxieties.
He's able to do that as well as rescue us from our sin.
But by his life, by his death, and then his miraculous resurrection,
Just think about that.
Sin and rebellion has a price to pay.
You know, if I commit a crime this afternoon, I would expect to be punished.
I'm not planning to, but you know.
But it's true, if we commit a crime, there is punishment that is due to us.
Well, the light and the life that Jesus offers us, the good news, the gift that we saw about on that video at the start,
is that because Jesus lived his sinless life.
He lived in this world like us, but he didn't sin like we do, not even in his thoughts, not at all, not one, not even an incy-wincey one, none.
And yet when he died on the cross, he did it to bear the punishment that we all deserved.
He paid the ultimate price.
God sent his son.
He died for our sin.
He died for our rebellion and he died for our sin.
And he proved his power over that sin, over that death, over that darkness, over that separation by taking all of our sin to the grave.
And on the third day he rose again.
He alone has the power to be our rescuer, to raise from the dead.
overcoming the power of sin, overcoming the power of darkness.
Isn't that amazing?
That is what Christmas is about, this baby who came to save.
And thirdly, that light and life is for you, for you, for you, this Christmas.
Because of his perfect and sinless life,
His death and his resurrection, he is able, he alone is able to offer you light and life.
And he says to us, he says things like, I know the things that trouble you.
I know the ways that you have wandered from me.
But he describes himself as being like a shepherd who tends a flock.
who comes looking, who knows each one of us with great care.
He comes with this gift of a rescue.
He comes with this gift of his perfect life, exchange for your sin, exchange for my sin and my rebellion.
His life paid the price.
His life took the punishment for my sin.
and for your sin and for your rebellion.
And because he did that, he has opened up a way for all to receive forgiveness and new life.
This is the light and life that we've been singing about.
And as a really famous verse, sometimes see it even at football matches, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son, that whoever
believes in him, shall not perish, but have eternal life.
John 3, 16, whoever believed.
He came to save the whole world into the darkness of the night.
This baby was born, this light broke in full of grace for you, for you.
This is personal, this Christmas.
The most epic story in the whole of history
is for you.
So here it is in a nutshell.
All of us know what darkness feels like, fear, guilt, brokenness, confusion, or simply just feeling far from God.
And the Bible says, we experienced this because we were created for relationship with God, but we've all turned from Him.
And that separation is sin.
That's what the Bible calls sin.
But God did not leave us in the dark.
He sent Jesus, his son, into the world as the light.
Jesus lived the life that we couldn't live without sin.
And then willingly died on the cross to take the punishment for our sin that it deserved.
And three days later,
He rose from the dead, breaking the power of darkness forever, forever.
And because of Jesus, everybody, absolutely everybody can be forgiven, made new, brought back into God's family.
It isn't something we earn, it's something that we receive.
It's a gift of grace.
And it starts with turning to Jesus, turning from
darkness to his light, trusting him as the only one who saves, and choosing to follow him with our lives and knowing him for all eternity.
He's broken even the power of death as we understand it.
What a promise.
You know, what amazing good news.
And at this Carol service, we want to say, you know,
If you this morning are ready to call out to him now, then you can simply come to him.
And if you're not used to praying, it's okay.
It's part of my job to help you.
And I am very, very excited to do that.
So I'm going to pray.
And I'm going to tell you actually what I'm going to say first.
And then you can decide if you agree with that.
And then we'll pray together.
So this is the prayer which says, I've been going my way.
I've been
I've been living in darkness, I've been living in sin and selfishness and all of the things that you're not proud of.
And actually this morning I realized for the first time that you have come.
Christmas is about a gift of grace and I want to receive that and I want to turn from the way I have been living and receive your light and your life and live with you now for all eternity.
So this is what I'm going to propose.
I pray in a minute.
I've written it down just so I make sure it's the same both times so no one can think I'm tricking anyone.
So Jesus, I need you.
I turn from my sin now.
I'm sorry for the things that I've done and said in my life that have moved me further and further away from your goodness and your ways.
I know you love me with a love that reaches me today in my darkness and I choose to trust you.
Invite you today into my life.
Be my savior.
And lead me in your light now and for all my days.
Okay?
So, there we go.
If you want to close your eyes, you can.
If you want to keep your eyes open, you can.
But I want to invite you, if you've never realized, if you've never known that this baby at Christmas is a rescue mission for you.
God's divine epic plan, and that you have a choice to make, to follow Him, and you want to do that.
Let's pray.
Jesus, I need you.
I turn from my sin now.
I am sorry for the things I have done and said in my life that have moved me further and further from your goodness and from your ways.
Jesus, I know that you love me with a love that reaches me today in my darkness.
And I choose to trust you.
I invite you today into my life.
Be my savior and lead me in your light now and for all my days.
Amen.
And he promises that whoever comes to him, he will never push away.
Jesus is light in the darkness.
That never comes to an end.
And as his dearly loved child, that's not only for here on earth, that's for all eternity in heaven today forever.
So if you prayed that, we would love to, yeah, it's the beginning of a journey.
You know, it's the beginning of a journey and we would love to talk with you to, yeah, to have a conversation.
Paks here, new believers, paks have got a bit of information in them.
We'd love to give you those as well.
And if you'd like to continue exploring, there are always questions to ask.
We've got a fantastic opportunity in 2026 early on.
We'd be running a new alpha course, which you and your friends would be really, really welcome to.
It's a relaxed space to just explore the Christian faith and ask any questions you've got.
So if you are searching, if you're hurting, if you're curious, if you just want a place to have a free dinner and listen to others, Alpha might be a perfect next step and you really will be invited.
No pressure, no cost, no agenda, just come.
I want to just encourage you to let Christmas not just be a season that you pass through this year, but the beginning of a journey towards light and life
and hope.
And I'm going to give you a moment to just reflect on what I've said and maybe some things that have been read or sung already this morning.
And the band are just going to sing a song over us to give us an opportunity to do that.
OK.
going to be drawing to an end in a moment.
I've just, when I've been thinking about sin and this rescue mission, we went through a phase in our house.
My kids went through a phase of watching Bondi Beach.
Don't you ever seen it?
It's about the life garden in Australia at Bondi Beach.
And I kept thinking about, like, sin is sometimes like being caught in a rip current and you kind of pulled further and further from the shore.
And these rescuers on Bondi Beach, they come.
And just as we were worshipping before, I kind of saw someone who was pulled out in the rip current.
And the guys came out with their boards and everything, and they had to just reach out their hands.
And it might be that you're thinking, well, I don't know all the answers to all my questions.
I don't know, but actually to be rescued is just as well to just reach out one hand, one finger if you can.
And he is there.
He will grab hold of you, and he will help you, and he will carry you and rescue you.